Security best practices  - 10 points to consider - #5782 (#7113)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/configuration/best-practices.md

```
config:
  dynamic:
    kibana:
      multitenancy_enabled: true
      private_tenant_enabled: false
```

## 8. Manage the configuration via securityadmin.sh

We recommend to use securityadmin.sh to manage configuration of your clusters, `securityadmin.sh` is a command-line tool provided by OpenSearch for managing security configurations. It allows administrators to efficiently manage security settings, including roles, role mappings, and other security-related configurations, within an OpenSearch cluster.

Changes with made with `securityadmin.sh` should be preceded by a backup of the current configuration, otherwise configuration can be lost! For more detailed information visit the [security admin configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/) section in the documentation. 

> ### Benefits of using securityadmin.sh:

Reviewer: nit: add new line space after title

1. Consistency: By using securityadmin.sh, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within the cluster. This helps maintain a standardized and secure environment.
2. Automation: securityadmin.sh enables automation of security configuration tasks, making it easier to deploy and manage security settings across multiple nodes or clusters.
3. Version Control: Security configurations managed through securityadmin.sh can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations if necessary.

> To prevent any configuration overrides, it is important to note that configuration changes made through the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or using the OpenSearch API provide a convenient way to modify security configurations. To ensure updates made in this way are maintained through the securityadmin.sh tool, a backup of configuration should first be made to ensure all configuration are captured prior to uploading the modified configuration using securityadmin.sh

Reviewer: suggestion: 
```
To prevent configuration overrides, it's important to note that changes made through the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or using the OpenSearch API provide a convenient way to modify security settings. To ensure these updates are preserved when using the `securityadmin.sh` tool, first create a backup of the current configuration. This ensures all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.
```

For more detailed information on using securityadmin.sh and managing security configurations in OpenSearch, refer to the following resources:
- OpenSearch Security Documentation: [Applying changes to configuration files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)
- OpenSearch Security Documentation: [Modifying the YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

## 9. Replace all default passwords

If you are initializing OpenSearch with demo configuration there are many passwords that are provided out the box in `internal_users.yml`, for example internal users such as `admin`, `kibanaserver`, `logstash`, and others.
You should change the passwords for these users to strong complex passwords, either at start up or as soon as possible once the cluster is running.
Creating passwords configuration is a very straight forward procedure, especially using scripts that come bundled with OpenSearch like `hash.sh` or `hash.bat`, which are located in the `plugin/OpenSearch security/tools` directory. 

> The `kibanaserver` user is a crucial component that allows OpenSearch Dashboards to communicate with the OpenSearch cluster. By default, this user is preconfigured with a default password in the demo configuration. This should be reaplaced with a strong, unique password in the OpenSearch configuration and then the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file should be updated to reflect this change.

Reviewer: suggestion:
```
When initializing OpenSearch with the demo configuration, many default passwords are provided in `internal_users.yml` for internal users such as `admin`, `kibanaserver`, `logstash`, and others.

You should change the passwords for these users to strong, complex passwords either at startup or as soon as possible once the cluster is running. Creating password configurations is a straightforward procedure, especially using the scripts bundled with OpenSearch like `hash.sh` or `hash.bat`, located in the `plugin/OpenSearch security/tools` directory. 

The `kibanaserver` user is a crucial component that allows OpenSearch Dashboards to communicate with the OpenSearch cluster. By default, this user is preconfigured with a default password in the demo configuration. This should be replaced with a strong, unique password in the OpenSearch configuration, and the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file should be updated to reflect this change.
```

## 10. Stay informed and apply updates

Regularly monitor security advisories and updates from the OpenSearch project to stay informed about potential vulnerabilities or bugs. Promptly apply updates to the Security plugin and it's dependencies to maintain a secure environment.

## Bonus tip: Diagnose permission issues efficiently

Keeping on top of any issues that arise in a timely manor will help to ensure things continue to run smooth. Should you run into difficulties there are places you can reach out to for help, such as:
- Through GitHub, you can log an issue at [OpenSearch-project/security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/security), or also at [OpenSearch-project/OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/security)

> - [Or by reaching out on the forums](https://forum.opensearch.org/tag/cve).

Reviewer: suggestion:
```
Addressing issues promptly will help ensure smooth operations. If you encounter difficulties, you can seek help through various channels:

- Log an issue on GitHub at [OpenSearch-project/security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/security) or [OpenSearch-project/OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/security).
- Reach out on the [OpenSearch forums](https://forum.opensearch.org/tag/cve).
```

## 1. Use your own PKI to set up SSL/TLS

Although using your own public key infrastructure (PKI), such as [AWS Certificate Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/crypto/latest/userguide/awspki-service-acm.html), requires more initial effort, a custom PKI provides you with all the flexibility needed to set up SSL/TLS in the most secure and performant way.

### Enable SSL/TLS for node- and REST-layer traffic

SSL/TLS is enabled by default on the transport layer, which is used for node-to-node communication. SSL/TLS is disabled by default on the REST layer.

The following setting is required in order to enable encryption on the REST layer: `plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true`.

For additional configuration options, such as specifying certificate paths, keys, and certificate authority files, refer to [Configuring TLS certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/).

### Replace all demo certificates with your own PKI
The certificates generated when initializing an OpenSearch cluster with `install_demo_configuration.sh` are not suitable for production. These should be replaced with your own certificates.

> You can generate custom certificates in a few different ways. One approach is to use OpenSSL, described in detail at [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/). Alternatively, there are online tools available that can simplify the certificate creation process, such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can generate custom certificates in a few different ways. One approach is to use OpenSSL, described in detail at [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/). Alternatively, there are online tools available that can simplify the certificate creation process, such as the following:
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks @AntonEliatra. Good additions.

Before making changes with `securityadmin.sh`, always create a backup of the current configuration to prevent potential loss. For more detailed information, visit the [security admin configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/) section.

### Benefits of using securityadmin.sh

1. Consistency: By using `securityadmin.sh`, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within a cluster. This helps to maintain a standardized and secure environment.
2. Automation: `securityadmin.sh` enables automation of security configuration tasks, making it easier to deploy and manage security settings across multiple nodes or clusters.
3. Version control: Security configurations managed through `securityadmin.sh` can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations.

> You can prevent configuration overrides by first creating a backup of the current configuration created using OpenSearch Dashboards UI or the OpenSearch API by runnig the `securityadmin.sh` tool with `-backup` option. This ensures that all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can prevent configuration overrides by first creating a backup of the current configuration created using the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or the OpenSearch API by running the `securityadmin.sh` tool with the `-backup` option. This ensures that all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.
```

Author: Updated to a new text as per suggestion

To prevent any configuration overides, it is important to note that configuration changes made through the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or via the OpenSearch API provide a convenient way to modify security configurations. To ensure updates made in this way are maintained via the `securityadmin.sh` tool, a backup of configuration should first be made to ensure all configuration are captured prior to uploading the modified configuration using `securityadmin.sh`

### Enable SSL/TLS for node- and REST-layer traffic

SSL/TLS is enabled by default on the transport layer, which is used for node-to-node communication. SSL/TLS is disabled by default on the REST layer.

The following setting is required in order to enable encryption on the REST layer: `plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true`.

For additional configuration options, such as specifying certificate paths, keys, and certificate authority files, refer to [Configuring TLS certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/).

### Replace all demo certificates with your own PKI
The certificates generated when initializing an OpenSearch cluster with `install_demo_configuration.sh` are not suitable for production. These should be replaced with your own certificates.

You can generate custom certificates in a few different ways. One approach is to use OpenSSL, described in detail at [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/). Alternatively, there are online tools available that can simplify the certificate creation process.

## 2. Prefer client certificate authentication for API authentication

> Client certificate authentication offers a secure alternative to password authentication and is more suitable for machine-to-machine interactions. It also ensures low performance overhead because the authentication occurs at the TLS level. Nearly all client software, such as curl, and client libraries support this authentication method.

Reviewer 3: It can go in either direction @natebower, I've seen both used in other documentation.

> Client certificate authentication offers a secure alternative to password authentication and is more suitable for machine-to-machine interactions. It also ensures low performance overhead because the authentication occurs at the TLS level. Nearly all client software, such as curl, and client libraries support this authentication method.

Reviewer 2: Ok, then fine as is.

Before making changes with `securityadmin.sh`, always create a backup of the current configuration to prevent potential loss. For more detailed information, visit the [security admin configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/) section.

### Benefits of using securityadmin.sh

1. Consistency: By using `securityadmin.sh`, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within a cluster. This helps to maintain a standardized and secure environment.
2. Automation: `securityadmin.sh` enables automation of security configuration tasks, making it easier to deploy and manage security settings across multiple nodes or clusters.
3. Version control: Security configurations managed through `securityadmin.sh` can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations.

> To prevent configuration overrides, it's important to note that changes made through the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or using the OpenSearch API provide a convenient way to modify security settings. To ensure that these updates are preserved when using the `securityadmin.sh` tool, first create a backup of the current configuration. This ensures that all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe my comment here was addressed.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Maybe we can recast the first sentence as something like "You can prevent configuration overrides by..."

Author: Complete and reworded.

You can prevent configuration overrides by ensuring any updates made through OpenSearch Dashboards UI or via the OpenSearch API are maintained through the use of the `securityadmin.sh` tool. A backup of configuration should first be made to ensure all configuration are captured prior to uploading the modified configuration using `securityadmin.sh`.

- [Modifying YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

## 9. Replace all default passwords

When initializing OpenSearch with the demo configuration, many default passwords are provided for internal users in `internal_users.yml`, such as `admin`, `kibanaserver`, and `logstash`.

You should change the passwords for these users to strong, complex passwords either at startup or as soon as possible once the cluster is running. Creating password configurations is a straightforward procedure, especially when using the scripts bundled with OpenSearch, like `hash.sh` or `hash.bat`, located in the `plugin/OpenSearch security/tools` directory.

The `kibanaserver` user is a crucial component that allows OpenSearch Dashboards to communicate with the OpenSearch cluster. By default, this user is preconfigured with a default password in the demo configuration. This should be replaced with a strong, unique password in the OpenSearch configuration, and the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file should be updated to reflect this change.

## 10. Stay informed and apply updates

> Regularly monitor OpenSearch Project security advisories and updates to stay informed about potential vulnerabilities or bugs. Promptly apply updates to the Security plugin and its dependencies to maintain a secure environment.

Reviewer 2: It looks like my comment re: a link has not been addressed.

---
layout: default
title: Best Practices

> nav_order: 11

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
parent: Configuration
nav_order: 11
```

---
layout: default
title: Best Practices

> parent: Best Practices

Reviewer 3: You can remove this, unless we plan on having additional best practice pages underneath this one. 

```suggestion

```

nav_order: 11
---

> # Best Practices for OpenSearch Security plugin

Reviewer 3: Are these best practices specific to the plugin or for securing your OpenSearch cluster as a whole?

```suggestion
# Best Practices for OpenSearch Security
```

Setting up secure practices in OpenSearch is crucial for protecting your data. Here are our top 10 guidelines that offer clear steps on keeping your system safe.

> ## 1. Use your own PKI (public key infrastructure) to setup SSL/TLS for OpenSearch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 1. Use your own public key infrastructure (PKI) to setup SSL/TLS for OpenSearch
```

> Although it requires a bit more effort at the beginning, it provides you with all the flexibility needed to set up SSL/TLS in the most secure and performant way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Although using your own PKI, such as [AWS Certificate Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/crypto/latest/userguide/awspki-service-acm.html), requires more effort at the beginning, a custom PKI provides you with all the flexibility needed to set up SSL/TLS in the most secure and performant way.
```

> Although using your own public key infrastructure (PKI), such as [AWS Certificate Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/crypto/latest/userguide/awspki-service-acm.html), requires more effort at the beginning, a custom PKI provides you with all the flexibility needed to set up SSL/TLS in the most secure and performant way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although using your own public key infrastructure (PKI), such as [AWS Certificate Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/crypto/latest/userguide/awspki-service-acm.html), requires more initial effort, a custom PKI provides you with all the flexibility needed to set up SSL/TLS in the most secure and performant way.
```

> ### Enable SSL/TLS for node and REST layer traffic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Enable SSL/TLS for node- and REST-layer traffic
```

> The SSL/TLS is enabled by default for transport layer which is used by node to node communication. The SSL/TLS on REST layer is disabled by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The SSL/TLS is enabled by default for the transport layer, which is used by node to node communication. The SSL/TLS on the REST layer is disabled by default.
```

> The SSL/TLS is enabled by default for the transport layer, which is used by node to node communication. The SSL/TLS on the REST layer is disabled by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SSL/TLS is enabled by default on the transport layer, which is used for node-to-node communication. SSL/TLS is disabled by default on the REST layer.
```

> The following setting is required to enable encryption at REST layer: `plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following setting is required in order to enable encryption on the REST layer: `plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true`.
```

> For additional configuration options, such as specifying certificate paths, keys and certificate-authority files you can refer the steps on [configuring TLS certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For additional configuration options, such as specifying certificate paths, keys, and certificate authority files, refer to [Configuring TLS certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/).
```

### Replace all demo certificates with your own PKI

> The certificates generated when initializing OpenSearch cluster with `install_demo_configuration.sh` are not suitable for production. These should be replaced with your own certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The certificates generated when initializing an OpenSearch cluster with `install_demo_configuration.sh` are not suitable for production. These should be replaced with your own certificates.
```

> You can generate custom certificates in a few different ways. One approach is by using OpenSSL, described in detail on [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/), alternatively there are tools available online which can simplify the certificate creation process.

Reviewer 3: Do we have any other approaches we can document for demo certificates, since we say "a few different ways?"

Reviewer 2: +1. Additionally, if we reference online tools, we should reference at least a couple.

> You can generate custom certificates in a few different ways. One approach is by using OpenSSL, described in detail on [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/), alternatively there are tools available online which can simplify the certificate creation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can generate custom certificates in a few different ways. One approach is to use OpenSSL, described in detail at [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/). Alternatively, there are online tools available that can simplify the certificate creation process.
```

## 2. Prefer client certificate authentication for API authentication

> Client certificate authentication offers a secure alternative to passwords and is more suitable for machine-to-machine interactions. It also ensures low performance overhead since the authentication occurs at the TLS level. Nearly all client software, such as curl, and client libraries support this authentication method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Client certificate authentication offers a secure alternative to password authentication and is more suitable for machine-to-machine interactions. It also ensures low performance overhead because the authentication occurs at the TLS level. Nearly all client software, such as curl, and client libraries support this authentication method.
```

> Client certificate authentication offers a secure alternative to passwords and is more suitable for machine-to-machine interactions. It also ensures low performance overhead since the authentication occurs at the TLS level. Nearly all client software, such as curl, and client libraries support this authentication method.

Reviewer 2: cURL?

For detailed configuration instructions, refer to [Enabling client certificate authentication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/client-auth/#enabling-client-certificate-authentication).

Details on configuring client certificate authentication can be found at [Enabling client certificate authentication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/client-auth/#enabling-client-certificate-authentication)

> ## 3. Prefer SSO using SAML or OpenID for Dashboards authentication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 3. Prefer Single Sign-on (SSO) using SAML or OpenID for Dashboards authentication
```

> Details on configuring client certificate authentication can be found at [Enabling client certificate authentication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/client-auth/#enabling-client-certificate-authentication)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Information about configuring client certificate authentication can be found at [Enabling client certificate authentication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/client-auth/#enabling-client-certificate-authentication).
```

> ## 3. Prefer single sign-on (SSO) using SAML or OpenID for dashboards authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 3. Prefer SSO using SAML or OpenID for OpenSearch Dashboards authentication
```

> Implementing Single Sign-On (SSO) with protocols like Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) or OpenID for Dashboards authentication enhances security by delegating credential management to a dedicated system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Implementing single sign-on (SSO) with protocols like SAML or OpenID for OpenSearch Dashboards authentication enhances security by delegating credential management to a dedicated system.
```

> This approach minimizes direct interaction with passwords in OpenSearch, streamlines authentication processes, and prevents clutter in the internal user database. For more information, visit the [SAML section of the OpenSearch documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/saml/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach minimizes direct interaction with passwords in OpenSearch, streamlines authentication processes, and prevents clutter in the internal user database. For more information, go to the [SAML section of the OpenSearch documentation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/saml/).
```

## 4. Limit the number of roles assigned to a user

Prioritizing fewer, more intricate roles over numerous, simplistic roles for users enhances security and simplifies administration.

> Additional best practices for role management may include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additional best practices for role management might include:
```

> Prioritizing fewer, more intricate roles over numerous, simplistic roles for users enhances security and simplifies administration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prioritizing fewer, more intricate user roles over numerous simplistic roles enhances security and simplifies administration.
```

> Additional best practices for role management might include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additional best practices for role management include:
```

1. Role granularity: Define roles based on specific job functions or access requirements to minimize unnecessary privileges.
2. Regular review: Regularly review and audit assigned roles to ensure alignment with organizational policies and access needs.

> For more information about roles, visit the documentation on [defining users and roles in OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/users-roles/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about roles, go to the documentation on [defining users and roles in OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/users-roles/).
```

> ## 5. Verify DLS, FLS and field masking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 5. Verify DLS, FLS, and field masking
```

> If you have configured DLS (Document Level Security), FLS (Field Level Security), or field masking, ensure you double-check your role definitions, especially if a user is mapped to multiple roles. It is highly recommended to test this by making a GET request to `_plugins/_security/authinfo`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have configured Document Level Security (DLS), Field Level Security (FLS), or field masking, make you double-check your role definitions, especially if a user is mapped to multiple roles. It is highly recommended to test this by making a GET request to `_plugins/_security/authinfo`.
```

> If you have configured Document Level Security (DLS), Field Level Security (FLS), or field masking, make you double-check your role definitions, especially if a user is mapped to multiple roles. It is highly recommended to test this by making a GET request to `_plugins/_security/authinfo`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have configured Document Level Security (DLS), Field Level Security (FLS), or field masking, make sure you double-check your role definitions, especially if a user is mapped to multiple roles. It is highly recommended that you test this by making a GET request to `_plugins/_security/authinfo`.
```

Detailed examples and additional configurations are available at:

>  - [Document-level security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/document-level-security/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - [Document-level security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/document-level-security/).
```

>  - [Field-level security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/field-level-security/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - [Field-level security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/field-level-security/).
```

>  - [Field masking]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/field-masking/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - [Field masking]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/field-masking/).
```

> ## 6. Strip audit logging configuration to essentials only

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 6. Use only the essentials for the audit logging configuration
```

> Extensive audit logging can degrade system performance due to the following reasons:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extensive audit logging can degrade system performance due to the following:
```

- Each logged event adds to the processing load.
- Audit logs can quickly grow in size, consuming significant disk space.

To ensure optimal performance, disable unnecessary logging and be selective about which logs are used. If not strictly required by compliance regulations, consider turning off audit logging. If audit logging is essential for your cluster, configure it according to your compliance requirements.

Whenever possible, adhere to these recommendations:

- Set `audit.log_request_body` to `false`.
- Set `audit.resolve_bulk_requests` to `false`.
- Enable `compliance.write_log_diffs`.
- Minimize entries for `compliance.read_watched_fields`.
- Minimize entries for `compliance.write_watched_indices`.

> ## 7. Explore disabling private tenant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 7. Consider disabling the private tenant
```

> In many cases, the use of private tenants is unnecessary, yet this feature is enabled by default. As a result, every OpenSearch Dashboards user is provided with their own private tenant and a corresponding new index to save objects. This can lead to a large number of unnecessary indexes. Evaluate whether this feature is needed, and if it isn't, disable it by adding the following configuration to the `config.yml` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In many cases, the use of private tenants is unnecessary, yet this feature is enabled by default. As a result, every OpenSearch Dashboards user is provided with their own private tenant and a corresponding new index in which to save objects. This can lead to a large number of unnecessary indexes. Evaluate whether this feature is needed, and, if it isn't, disable it by adding the following configuration to the `config.yml` file:
```

```yaml
config:
  dynamic:
    kibana:
      multitenancy_enabled: true
      private_tenant_enabled: false
```

> ## 8. Manage the configuration via securityadmin.sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 8. Manage the configuration using securityadmin.sh
```

> We recommend to use securityadmin.sh to manage configuration of your clusters, `securityadmin.sh` is a command-line tool provided by OpenSearch for managing security configurations. It allows administrators to efficiently manage security settings, including roles, role mappings, and other security-related configurations, within an OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use `securityadmin.sh` to manage the configuration of your clusters. `securityadmin.sh` is a command-line tool provided by OpenSearch for managing security configurations. It allows administrators to efficiently manage security settings, including roles, role mappings, and other security-related configurations within an OpenSearch cluster.
```

> Use `securityadmin.sh` to manage the configuration of your clusters. `securityadmin.sh` is a command-line tool provided by OpenSearch for managing security configurations. It allows administrators to efficiently manage security settings, including roles, role mappings, and other security-related configurations within an OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer 2: Should `securityadmin.sh` also be in code font in the heading here and below?

Author: Yes thanks Nate done :)

> Before making changes with `securityadmin.sh`, always create a backup of the current configuration to prevent potential loss. For more detailed information, visit the [security admin configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/) section in the documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before making changes with `securityadmin.sh`, always create a backup of the current configuration to prevent potential loss. For more detailed information, visit the [security admin configuration](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/) section.
```

### Benefits of using securityadmin.sh

> 1. Consistency: By using securityadmin.sh, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within the cluster. This helps maintain a standardized and secure environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Consistency: By using `securityadmin.sh`, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within the cluster. This helps maintain a standardized and secure environment.
```

> 1. Consistency: By using `securityadmin.sh`, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within the cluster. This helps maintain a standardized and secure environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Consistency: By using `securityadmin.sh`, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within a cluster. This helps to maintain a standardized and secure environment.
```

> 2. Automation: securityadmin.sh enables automation of security configuration tasks, making it easier to deploy and manage security settings across multiple nodes or clusters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Automation: `securityadmin.sh` enables automation of security configuration tasks, making it easier to deploy and manage security settings across multiple nodes or clusters.
```

> 3. Version Control: Security configurations managed through securityadmin.sh can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations if necessary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Version Control: Security configurations managed through `securityadmin.sh` can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations if necessary.
```

> 3. Version Control: Security configurations managed through `securityadmin.sh` can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Version control: Security configurations managed through `securityadmin.sh` can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations.
```

> To prevent configuration overrides, it's important to note that changes made through the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or using the OpenSearch API provide a convenient way to modify security settings. To ensure these updates are preserved when using the `securityadmin.sh` tool, first create a backup of the current configuration. This ensures all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To prevent configuration overrides, it's important to note that changes made through the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or using the OpenSearch API provide a convenient way to modify security settings. To ensure that these updates are preserved when using the `securityadmin.sh` tool, first create a backup of the current configuration. This ensures that all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.
```

> To prevent configuration overrides, it's important to note that changes made through the OpenSearch Dashboards UI or using the OpenSearch API provide a convenient way to modify security settings. To ensure these updates are preserved when using the `securityadmin.sh` tool, first create a backup of the current configuration. This ensures all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.

Reviewer 2: First sentence: I'm not sure that the second phrase logically follows the first. How does making changes in these ways being convenient prevent overrides?

For more detailed information on using securityadmin.sh and managing security configurations in OpenSearch, refer to the following resources:

> - OpenSearch Security Documentation: [Applying changes to configuration files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  [Applying changes to configuration files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)
```

> For more detailed information on using securityadmin.sh and managing security configurations in OpenSearch, refer to the following resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more detailed information about using `securityadmin.sh` and managing OpenSearch security configurations, refer to the following resources:
```

> - OpenSearch Security Documentation: [Modifying the YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Modifying the YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)
```

> -  [Applying changes to configuration files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Applying changes to configuration files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)
```

> - [Modifying the YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Modifying YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)
```

> - [Modifying the YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

Reviewer 2: Confirm that this is the actual name of the resource.

## 9. Replace all default passwords

> When initializing OpenSearch with the demo configuration, many default passwords are provided in `internal_users.yml` for internal users such as `admin`, `kibanaserver`, `logstash`, and others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When initializing OpenSearch with the demo configuration, many default passwords are provided for internal users in `internal_users.yml`, such as `admin`, `kibanaserver`, and `logstash`.
```

> You should change the passwords for these users to strong, complex passwords either at startup or as soon as possible once the cluster is running. Creating password configurations is a straightforward procedure, especially using the scripts bundled with OpenSearch like `hash.sh` or `hash.bat`, located in the `plugin/OpenSearch security/tools` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should change the passwords for these users to strong, complex passwords either at startup or as soon as possible once the cluster is running. Creating password configurations is a straightforward procedure, especially when using the scripts bundled with OpenSearch, like `hash.sh` or `hash.bat`, located in the `plugin/OpenSearch security/tools` directory.
```

The `kibanaserver` user is a crucial component that allows OpenSearch Dashboards to communicate with the OpenSearch cluster. By default, this user is preconfigured with a default password in the demo configuration. This should be replaced with a strong, unique password in the OpenSearch configuration, and the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file should be updated to reflect this change.

> ## 10. Stay informed and apply updates

Reviewer: review-dog action seems to be mis-reading the word here.

Author: Yes indeed. Thanks.

Reviewer 3: @kolchfa-aws: Very curious. Flagging this for you.

> Regularly monitor security advisories and updates from the OpenSearch project to stay informed about potential vulnerabilities or bugs. Promptly apply updates to the Security plugin and it's dependencies to maintain a secure environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regularly monitor OpenSearch Project security advisories and updates to stay informed about potential vulnerabilities or bugs. Promptly apply updates to the Security plugin and its dependencies to maintain a secure environment.
```

> Regularly monitor security advisories and updates from the OpenSearch project to stay informed about potential vulnerabilities or bugs. Promptly apply updates to the Security plugin and it's dependencies to maintain a secure environment.

Reviewer 2: Should we provide a link to where the user can find these advisories and updates?

> ## Bonus tip: Diagnose permission issues efficiently

Reviewer 2: Please remove "Bonus tip". This tone would be more appropriate in a blog post. I'm also not sure that this section works, as the following "tip" is essentially a throwaway. Would it make more sense for this heading to just be something like "Getting help" and to delete the first sentence below?

Author: Complete, thanks

> Addressing issues promptly will help ensure smooth operations. If you encounter difficulties, you can seek help through various channels:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Addressing issues promptly will help to ensure smooth operations. If you encounter difficulties, you can seek help through various channels:
```

> Addressing issues promptly will help ensure smooth operations. If you encounter difficulties, you can seek help through various channels:

Reviewer 2: We say "promptly" here but "efficiently" in the heading. Should the heading also use "promptly"?

> - Log an issue on GitHub at [OpenSearch-project/security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/security) or [OpenSearch-project/OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/security).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create an issue on GitHub at [OpenSearch-project/security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/security/security) or [OpenSearch-project/OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/security).
```

> - Reach out on the [OpenSearch forums](https://forum.opensearch.org/tag/cve).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ask a question on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/tag/cve).
```

```
plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true
```
{% include copy.html %}

For additional configuration options, such as specifying certificate paths, keys, and certificate authority files, refer to [Configuring TLS certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/).

### Replace all demo certificates with your own PKI

The certificates generated when initializing an OpenSearch cluster with `install_demo_configuration.sh` are not suitable for production. These should be replaced with your own certificates.

You can generate custom certificates in a few different ways. One approach is to use OpenSSL, described in detail at [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/). Alternatively, there are online tools available that can simplify the certificate creation process, such as the following:

- [SearchGuard TLS Tool](https://docs.search-guard.com/latest/offline-tls-tool)
- [TLSTool by dylandreimerink](https://github.com/dylandreimerink/tlstool)

## 2. Prefer client certificate authentication for API authentication

> Client certificate authentication offers a secure alternative to password authentication and is more suitable for machine-to-machine interactions. It also ensures low performance overhead because the authentication occurs at the TLS-level. Nearly all client software, such as curl and client libraries, support this authentication method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Client certificate authentication offers a secure alternative to password authentication and is more suitable for machine-to-machine interactions. It also ensures low performance overhead because the authentication occurs on the TLS level. Nearly all client software, such as curl and client libraries, support this authentication method.
```

> For detailed configuration instructions and additonal information about client ceritificate authentication, see [Enabling client certificate authentication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/client-auth/#enabling-client-certificate-authentication).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For detailed configuration instructions and additional information about client ceritificate authentication, see [Enabling client certificate authentication]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/authentication-backends/client-auth/#enabling-client-certificate-authentication).
```

## 4. Limit the number of roles assigned to a user

Prioritizing fewer, more intricate user roles over numerous simplistic roles enhances security and simplifies administration.

Additional best practices for role management include:

1. Role granularity: Define roles based on specific job functions or access requirements to minimize unnecessary privileges.
2. Regular role review: Regularly review and audit assigned roles to ensure alignment with organizational policies and access needs.

For more information about roles, go to the documentation on [defining users and roles in OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/users-roles/).

## 5. Verify DLS, FLS, and field masking

If you have configured Document Level Security (DLS), Field Level Security (FLS), or field masking, make sure you double-check your role definitions, especially if a user is mapped to multiple roles. It is highly recommended that you test this by making a GET request to `_plugins/_security/authinfo`.

> Select on of the following for detailed examples and additional configurations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following resources provide detailed examples and additional configurations:
```

Whenever possible, adhere to these recommendations:

- Set `audit.log_request_body` to `false`.
- Set `audit.resolve_bulk_requests` to `false`.
- Enable `compliance.write_log_diffs`.
- Minimize entries for `compliance.read_watched_fields`.
- Minimize entries for `compliance.write_watched_indices`.

## 7. Consider disabling the private tenant

In many cases, the use of private tenants is unnecessary, although this feature is enabled by default. As a result, every OpenSearch Dashboards user is provided with their own private tenant and a corresponding new index in which to save objects. This can lead to a large number of unnecessary indexes. Evaluate whether private tenants are needed in your cluster. If private tenants are not needed, disable the feature by adding the following configuration to the `config.yml` file:

```yaml
config:
  dynamic:
    kibana:
      multitenancy_enabled: true
      private_tenant_enabled: false
```
{% include copy.html %}

> ## 8. Manage the configuration using securityadmin.sh

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 8. Manage the configuration using `securityadmin.sh`
```

Use `securityadmin.sh` to manage the configuration of your clusters. `securityadmin.sh` is a command-line tool provided by OpenSearch for managing security configurations. It allows administrators to efficiently manage security settings, including roles, role mappings, and other security-related configurations within an OpenSearch cluster.

Using `securityadmin.sh` provides the following benefits:

1. Consistency: By using `securityadmin.sh`, administrators can ensure consistency across security configurations within a cluster. This helps to maintain a standardized and secure environment.
2. Automation: `securityadmin.sh` enables automation of security configuration tasks, making it easier to deploy and manage security settings across multiple nodes or clusters.

> 3. Version control: Security configurations managed through `securityadmin.sh` can be version-controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Version control: Security configurations managed through `securityadmin.sh` can be version controlled using standard version control systems like Git. This facilitates tracking changes, auditing, and reverting to previous configurations.
```

> You can prevent configuration overrides by first creating a backup of the current configuration created using OpenSearch Dashboards UI or the OpenSearch API by runnig the `securityadmin.sh` tool with `-backup` option. This ensures that all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can prevent configuration overrides by first creating a backup of the current configuration created using OpenSearch Dashboards UI or the OpenSearch API by running the `securityadmin.sh` tool with `-backup` option. This ensures that all configurations are captured before uploading the modified configuration with `securityadmin.sh`.
```

- [Applying changes to configuration files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)
- [Modifying YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

## 9. Replace all default passwords

When initializing OpenSearch with the demo configuration, many default passwords are provided for internal users in `internal_users.yml`, such as `admin`, `kibanaserver`, and `logstash`.

You should change the passwords for these users to strong, complex passwords either at startup or as soon as possible once the cluster is running. Creating password configurations is a straightforward procedure, especially when using the scripts bundled with OpenSearch, like `hash.sh` or `hash.bat`, located in the `plugin/OpenSearch security/tools` directory.

The `kibanaserver` user is a crucial component that allows OpenSearch Dashboards to communicate with the OpenSearch cluster. By default, this user is preconfigured with a default password in the demo configuration. This should be replaced with a strong, unique password in the OpenSearch configuration, and the `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file should be updated to reflect this change.

## 10. Getting help

> If you need additonal help with OpenSearch Security, you can use the following resources:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need additional help with OpenSearch Security, you can use the following resources:
```
